interesting article from quartz and
you'll find many out there on the
internet like this from sources like
zerohedge here's what's really scary
about China overtaking America as a
world's biggest economy does size matter
indeed well let's take a look here
because basically what the article is
referring to is that China has become
the number one economy in the world and
this is something that I've been saying
a couple years back because the black
market in China is so huge and it's
impossible to calculate so that is one
area that leads us to believe that China
has been the biggest economy at least
for a few years now what happened is the
IMF adjusted for calculating the actual
purchasing power of Chinese compared to
their Western counterparts and when they
put in these new adjustments what they
found is that China as taken the lead
and this is because of course Chinese
have lower overhead they have less taxes
they have less costs than their same
demographic in the West so one finance
professor I pay King University explains
that it's not exactly apples to apples
comparison because obviously one is a
command control economy and the other
one has to basically borrow its money
from the Fed so China has a ton of debt
US has a ton of debt now it's estimated
here by the bank of governors of the
Federal Reserve System that US debt is
right around 60 trillion or so but I
would argue that it is actually closer
to 100 trillion when you take into
account all the unfunded liabilities
with no means to pay them off as you
know employment is down in America taxes
or higher expenses are higher so how is
it possible to pay down that debt now
what China does is they calculate
their debt a different way they assume
that it's going to be paid off so when
they calculate GDP their debt to GDP
ratio they don't even take into
consideration how they're going to pay
it off and that that's troubling here's
worthless investment in China and this
is key right here 15 trillion yuan
estimated worthless investment in China
I've been talking about this for years
trains and bridges and airports and
roads to know where ghost balls and
ghost housing complexes that's happening
right before my eyes here that is from
The Economist now what's more than
likely is that China will go the route
that Japan took over the last two
decades and what it's going to try to do
is absorb the price of the waste into
its own balance sheet and basically
write it off and that's that's scary
because we're worried about inflation
here and we're worried about people to
faulting on their loans and earlier this
month I reported that the banks are
increasing reserve requirements and
injecting more stimulus into their
economy so China is getting there faster
than the US did in terms of their debt
when you compare it to growth so you
could say that the Chinese economy is
less even less efficient in the United
States in a shorter amount of time
they're accumulating more debt for their
GDP gains and what the United States did
for their GDP gains over the past
several decades so we boat we know that
both nations cook the books and if we
ever got a glance at the real books we
would find that the problems are even
deeper than what we know so basically
that's how it is it looks bleak and it
looks like there's going to be continued
bridges to nowhere and housing complexes
that are empty and tearing down and
rebuilding of stuff in China to keep the
economy tip-top and in America will see
more finding
ential shenanigans to keep America's
growth at least on paper to where they
want to get it and we'll keep a close
eye on this as the quarters advance